At the start of this month, Erling Haaland’s family headed out to their seats at the Etihad Stadium to watch the 22-year-old make his Manchester derby debut.

They own the biggest executive box in the ground’s East Stand, which is effectively two adjacent regular-size boxes.

Haaland paid them back with an astonishing hat-trick in City’s 6-3 win over United.

Three days later, he was back at the Etihad and among the goals again, against FC Copenhagen in the Champions League’s group stage.

This time, his family hosted the owners of Vero Moderno, an Italian restaurant on Chapel Street in Manchester, which has become one of Haaland’s favourite treats in the city.

After the Norway striker scored his second goal of the night — his 19th in 11 official games for the club — Pep Guardiola allowed his guard to drop, just a little. The City manager opened his mouth wide before looking back at his backroom staff, sitting on the bench. Guardiola smiled with his eyes and pointed back to the pitch as if to say, “This guy!”.
Manchester City, Guardiola
Guardiola reacts to Haaland’s second goal against Copenhagen (Photo: Martin Rickett/PA Images via Getty Images)

“It came from a deflection, but he (Haaland) was exactly there,” Guardiola said afterwards. “Why does the ball go to where he is? This is an incredible instinct. What can I teach him about being here or there?

“He has an incredible sense of strikers, that they just know where the ball is going to finish. If he goes one second before the right time, the ball won’t be there. But well, he has this incredible talent.”

Haaland’s adaptation to life at City after moving from Germany’s Borussia Dortmund has been so smooth, the rest of European football is already starting to wonder when they are going to be able to lure him back out of England.

Reports in Spanish media claimed he has a special release clause in his contract, with conditions that favoured a move to Real Madrid.

“It’s not true — he has no release clause for Real Madrid or any other team,” said Guardiola after the Copenhagen win. “It’s not true. What else can I say?”

That does not mean there is no price for the striker to leave at any point, however.

Haaland has a €200million (£175.5m; $194m) release clause that kicks in from the summer of 2024, when he will be two years into his City deal. Its value then decreases as his five-year contract nears its end.

Crucially, the clause applies to any club outside England — not just Real Madrid. But no Premier League rivals will be able to trigger an option at any point during Haaland’s stay at City. This makes a move from City directly to another English club almost impossible.

In many ways, though, the release clause is just a formality.

City have long adopted an approach of not tying down any footballer to a contract, and will allow them to leave if that’s their true desire — see Nicolas Otamendi, Leroy Sane and even Bernardo Silva.
Haaland
Haaland enjoying himself at City’s training session on Monday (Photo: Oli Scarff/AFP via Getty Images)

There’s only one requirement to get that: there needs to be a suitable offer on the table.

There is a feeling in the industry that Spanish clubs might knock on the Etihad’s door in 2024, especially given Real Madrid and arch-rivals Barcelona both have an elite striker nearing the end of his career.

Karim Benzema, 34, is very close to signing a contract extension at Madrid until 2024 — the first summer in which Haaland will have a price on his back. At Barcelona, Robert Lewandowski signed a contract until 2026, by which time he will be 38, upon joining from Bayern Munich this summer.

Yet, as perfect as the timing might be for those two Spanish clubs, sources with knowledge of the situation are also convinced that if anyone is determined to go all-in for Haaland, it will take a lot for them to be successful.

Apart from the €200million release clause, there will be additional bonuses and agent fees to pay, which are expected to be at least on the same level as the ones City had to take on this summer.

City paid Dortmund £51million to sign Haaland, but the whole deal, including agent fees and bonuses, reached around £85million.

Then there’s his salary.

While the 23-cap Norwegian is now a top earner at the club, commanding a salary in excess of £375,000 a week, a big move to La Liga would potentially see that figure increase even further.

At present, though, Haaland is incredibly happy at City.

Guardiola has spoken widely about it and there are multiple behind-the-scenes examples to corroborate how satisfied Haaland is feeling with a side chasing their third English title in a row.

Look at his relationship with Mario Pafundi, for example, the club physiotherapist who has been treating Haaland since his first day at the club. They have established such a good connection he asked Pafundi to join him in Norway during last month’s international break.

“It’s not weird to see a physio going with a player,” Guardiola says. “I have always said to the club that the most important department in the backroom staff — knowing that everyone is important — are the physios: they take care of the legs of the players.

“Erling last season struggled a lot in Dortmund. He arrived here with some problems but he started to work with Mario, Federico (Genovesi) and other physios we have, and thanks to the work of everyone he has been better.”

Haaland and Pafundi were recorded by the club cameras walking back to the dressing room at half-time in the Manchester derby. Haaland had scored twice by then and chased his pal down to put an arm around his shoulder and fist-bump his chest.

His new City team-mates have also shown Haaland how glad they are to have him around, which Guardiola confirmed last Friday.

“Every press conference I have done this season — out of 50 questions, 45 are for Erling,” he said. “For me, it is OK. But we are fortunate that the guys who are here accept it perfectly.

“There are other guys who would not like it. Guys who had won four or five Premier Leagues and yet all the talk was about Erling? They would not like it in other clubs.

”We don’t have that. This is why it is a joy to train these players.”

That feeling is completely opposed to the end of Haaland’s time in Germany.

Dortmund’s sporting director Sebastian Kehl conceded that “as much as we have always appreciated Erling and the success he has had with our shirt, in the end the matter had definitely become a burden, both in the dressing room and for the club”.

You won’t find anyone close to the City Football Academy who would describe Haaland as a “burden”, and this has a lot to do with the club’s business activity.

City sold the same number of shirts through their official channels in July and August alone as they did throughout the whole of last season and, perhaps unsurprisingly, sales of their products in Norway have jumped by more than 200 per cent. The success is partly linked to the Haaland transfer but sales of shirts with the names and numbers of Kevin De Bruyne and Phil Foden on the back have also increased.
Haaland
Haaland’s father Alfie watches the Manchester derby (Photo: Matthew Ashton – AMA/Getty Images)

Director of football Txiki Begiristain’s work in recent transfer windows has been centred on keeping dressing-room harmony at the highest possible level. Begiristain knows better than anyone how important it is for Guardiola to have a healthy atmosphere day-to-day. With the impact expected by a footballer such as Haaland coming in, it had an even greater role this past summer.

So far, it has paid off and Haaland is not just embracing the club’s culture, but the city as well.

He has been pictured in multiple restaurants including Dishoom, which provides Indian cuisine, on Bridge Street. He knows Vero Moderno quite well too.

Haaland lives within walking distance of the city centre, in an apartment building that’s a 10-minute drive to the City Football Academy and is also home to numerous team-mates – including Ruben Dias, Jack Grealish and Julian Alvarez – and backroom staff.

The Yorkshire-born striker followed the club’s advice after City indicated this choice of home would help him to get settled into his new lifestyle.

The next project will be, in a couple of years’ time, to convince him that Manchester is still the best place he could be.