As half-time approached at the Emirates Stadium, Liverpool won a free kick midway inside the Arsenal half. In the final minute of the five added on, there should have been no sign of danger at the other end.

Given Liverpool’s start to the season and after falling behind within the opening minute in Sunday’s game, they had recovered well to equalise through Darwin Nunez and control a large portion of the half. Getting in at the break on level terms seemed ideal.

Seeing the free kick as a goalscoring opportunity, centre-backs Virgil van Dijk and Joel Matip went forward. That decision even surprised their manager Jurgen Klopp because, while the intention was to score, it left his side susceptible to a breakaway.

As has been the case so often this season, it was not a smart decision — Liverpool shot themselves in the foot. Less than a minute after Kostas Tsimikas delivered that free kick, the ball was up the other end of the pitch, nestling in Alisson’s net.

All momentum was lost and Liverpool were on the back foot again.

It was similar to the succession of breakaways Everton created from Liverpool set pieces in the second half of the Merseyside derby just over a month earlier. One led to a great chance for Neal Maupay and the other to a corner where Conor Coady had what would have been a winning goal ruled out for offside.

Liverpool had been fully in control against Arsenal but momentum shifted significantly. Arsenal did what Everton could not and punished them.

It begins on the edge of the Arsenal area after they clear the free kick to the edge of the box.

Gabriel Jesus is first to the ball and easily skips past Thiago. The Spanish midfielder tries to bring him down, but his dangling leg is ineffective. The tactical-foul opportunity, an area Liverpool have not been smart enough in this season, is gone.

Jesus feeds Gabriel Martinelli who drives forward at Jordan Henderson in a three-versus-three situation. Liverpool largely still have control of the situation although the danger looks to be coming from Martin Odegaard threatening to give Arsenal a man advantage. His urgency to join the attack far outweighs that shown by the recovering Matip and Thiago.

As Martinelli decides to go on the outside of Henderson, Trent Alexander-Arnold is drawn towards the ball and out of position. He attempts to anticipate and double-up with his captain on the Brazil forward. It is unnecessary and in doing so, he makes Martinelli’s mind up for him.

Alexander-Arnold’s decision to move out of the central position leaves Tsimikas in the impossible situation of trying to mark three players.

With Henderson and Alexander-Arnold attempting to stop Martinelli going on the outside, he cuts inside, sending the pair of them the wrong way. He then has time to pick out Bukayo Saka at the back post for a tap-in.

Conceding so late in the first half alters the complexion of a match completely, as much as an early goal. Game plans which have yet to be fully deployed are ripped up and Liverpool have found themselves in a position of weakness too often.

Caution was expected as Liverpool headed to north London. The opposite occurred: Klopp’s side could not have been more open and Arsenal exploited it.

The fine margins of success and failure were evident for the opening goal.

Liverpool are close to creating a chance of their own after finding themselves in a four-vs-three situation but Diogo Jota’s pass is intercepted by William Saliba.

The French defender quickly plays the ball to Ben White and now it is Liverpool in danger.

Thiago tries to press the right-back but cannot get close quickly, while Tsimikas is caught upfield.

White curls a pass to Saka, who was recovering from a previous run forward.

Liverpool are unfortunate that a tight offside call goes against them at this point but they have more than enough time to solve the problem after it.

The England international has space to run into, but it is the movement of Odegaard which opens the attack up.

In the screengrab above he is alongside Henderson, but he gradually drifts off the back of the Liverpool midfielder into the space behind.

As Thiago has pressed upfield and Klopp’s side are operating with two central midfielders, there is nobody else to track him. Van Dijk confronts Saka but he quickly passes the ball square to his captain.

Liverpool are in trouble, emphasised by the difference in body position between Alexander-Arnold and Matip and the Arsenal attackers. Instead of looking to track runners, such as eventual scorer Martinelli, they hold their line, facing the ball, which creates the lane Odegaard is looking for to slip in the in-form forward.

He does the rest.

It is a slick passing move from Arsenal but the naivety shown by a side with so much experience is unforgivable.

Arsenal’s third goal came via a controversial penalty decision that Klopp and Van Dijk voiced their frustrations about post-match. Thiago’s touch of boots with Jesus was enough for Michael Oliver to point to the spot.

The greater concerns, however, lie with Liverpool’s inability to clear the ball despite having a number of chances to do so in the build-up. It was borderline Sunday League levels of panic and uncertainty.

It starts from a long ball forward from Thomas Partey deep into the Liverpool half, towards Jesus.

Second-half substitute Ibrahima Konate does not challenge the forward, allowing him to chest the ball down to Granit Xhaka.

Xhaka combines with Martinelli and the former’s cross goes low across the box to Thiago. Instead of instantly clearing it, the midfielder tried to dribble past Saka in his own area and ends up conceding possession.

Two shots from Saka are blocked and saved respectively but then Joe Gomez’s attempted clearance is itself charged down by Jesus.

It falls to Fabinho, who did not look up to speed having come off the bench three minutes earlier, and he reacts slowly, rushing a poor clearance straight to Martinelli on the edge of the box.

He should have made a better connection, but he also missed a simple square pass to Henderson, who is in a better position to clear it.

Martinelli is closed down by Henderson and Gomez is also attracted to the ball, leaving a huge space outside him for Martinelli to slip in Xhaka.

The Switzerland midfielder has time to pick out Jesus in the box, which is when the foul occurs.

Teams have been able to expose Liverpool’s flaws consistently this season and deserve credit for forcing them to make errors or taking advantage of their positional deficiencies.

This is not the first time in these early stages of 2022-23 that Liverpool’s downfall has been closely attributed to their own defensive frailties. Look at the goals they have conceded this season and some of the issues have been similar to those displayed in Sunday’s defeat.

Klopp’s side need a defensive reset, but with so many players underperforming and making basic errors, it feels a long way off a quick fix.
